>> Kyle Simpson: All right, let's talk
about some regular expression improvements
that, frankly, have been long pending.
We've been wanting to have regular
expressions in JavaScript be improved for
quite a long time, and they basically
haven't changed in ten plus years.
But as of ES 2018,
a set of very helpful changes were added
to JavaScript regular expressions.
And they weren’t the end, it turns out
they were just sort of the beginning of
a whole slew of improvements that should
be coming to regular expressions over
the course of the next
several JavaScript revisions.
But there were three key ones that landed
in ES2018 that we wanna talk about.
>> Kyle Simpson: The first one is
going to be what we call a lookbehind.
But before we understand a lookbehind,
you need to make sure you
understand hat a lookahead is.
So if you haven't done much
with regular expression,
the idea of a lookahead is
essentially an assertion that says,
when I match a thing, I wanna
lookahead and say that my match only
happens if something immediately
after this also matches.
So I'm not matching both,
I'm only matching this thing, but
I only wanna match it if the thing
right after it is also true.
That's an assertion.
So common examples of assertions that
you probably already used would be,
the beginning or end of string anchors,
those are essentially assertions.
You're saying I wanna match something but
only if it shows up at the very
beginning of the string.
And that's the little carrot symbol.
That's your beginning of string anchor,
and that's an assertion.
Your dollar sign character if
your end of string anchor,
and that's essentially an assertion.
This match should only happen if
it happens to be at the very end.
So this idea of assertions in regular
expressions are saying, in addition
to the thing that I'm matching,
something else also has to be true.
And lookaheads allow us to not just
say simple things like beginning or
end of string, but also patterns.
So here, if I start out with a string,
Hello World, and I wanna match
a pattern that is l., you notice that
it's gonna give me two responses.
It's gonna give me the ll, that's from
positions two and three in the string.
Or it's also gonna give me the l and
d, which is from the end of the string
positions nine and ten, probably,
my math's probably off.
But the ld that's at
the end of the string.
So that's what happens when we
don't do any assertion at all.
But what if I then put
a dollar sign assertion?
Well, now I've restricted it to ld.
And now we can see in line 9,
a different kind of assertion,
which is called a lookahead.
Lookaheads, by the way, are not new,
these have been in JavaScript for
10 plus, almost 15 years probably.
And they've also been in almost every
other flavor of regular expression that
you've probably ever used.
So we have this parenthesis-question
mark syntax that you see on line 9.
And the ?= says, I want to ensure
that this pattern, like o, does match.
So that's what's called
a positive lookahead.
On line 12, we see a different syntax,
which uses the negate symbol,
and that is a negative lookahead.
So here we're saying on line 9,
I only wanna match an l.,
If it is followed by an o,
which is why we only get the ll.
And then, when we say, l.,
only when it's not followed by an o,
you'll notice that we get an lo,
and we get an ld,
because those two are not
followed by an o.
So that's positive and
negative lookaheads.
Well, if we can do lookaheads,
it makes sense that we would want
to sometimes also do lookbehinds.
We would want to assert that something
behind our match was true or not true.
Unfortunately, JavaScript for all of its
history has not supported lookbehinds.
We had lookaheads but not lookbehinds.
And it's been a major kind of missing
feature for our regular expressions.
Lookbehinds have been hacked into,
like we've hacked ways to do lookbehinds.
Like for example, reversing the string and
doing a lookahead with a reversed pattern,
which is bonkers, that's a terrible idea.
But that's an example of how people
have tried to work around, or
hack around, not having positive and
negative lookbehinds.
As of ES2018, we now officially
have support for positive and
negative lookbehinds.
And it's a very similar syntax
to what we had before, but
now it has the less than symbol in it.
So on line 3 we're saying,
only matching an l.,
if it is preceded by an e,
which is why we get the ll match.
And then line six we're
saying only match and l.,
if it's not preceded by e, which is
why we get the lo and the ld match.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we now have both positive and
negative lookaheads and lookbehinds.
So that's the first big improvement
to regular expressions,
being able to do lookbehinds.
And if you work with
regular expressions at all,
there's a pretty good chance that you've
probably been frustrated by these.
And now,
knowing that you have both of them,
hopefully you can improve
your regular expressions.